Maintain or Co-Maintain an rOpenSci Package! (#401)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-10-17-maintain-or-co-maintain-an-ropensci-package/index.Rmd

---
title: Maintain or Co-Maintain an rOpenSci Package!
author:
  - Maëlle Salmon
date: '2022-10-17'
slug: maintain-or-co-maintain-an-ropensci-package
categories: []
tags:

>   - community

Reviewer: Also possibly 'help'? But that seems to be a bit more associated with how to get help, rather than providing it.
```suggestion
  - community
  - packages
  - welcome
  - maintenance
```

description: A list of packages who need your help, and a list of reasons why to help.
---

rOpenSci [suite of packages](/packages) is mainly composed of packages contributed by the community through [peer-review](/software-peer-review), and of packages maintained by staff. 
Over time, the commitments and availability of the original developers of a package change, which leads to some maintainers' stepping down from their maintainer role, or some maintainers' hoping for more teamwork and therefore looking for co-maintainers.
Following our recent annual maintainer survey, in this blog post we will explain why **you** might want to help, and we'll list the packages currently up for adoption or collaboration.

## Why maintain or co-maintain a package?

Maintaining or co-maintaining a package can have some advantages, on top of the big motivator "keep a cool package alive".
Maintenance work allows you to gain and practice software development skills (writing R functions, using GitHub interface, unit testing and continuous integration, technical writing in the documentation...).
Furthermore, it will give these skills of yours a public record.

> Being an author of an _rOpenSci_ package means you have access to rOpenSci infrastructure ([pkgdown docs building for all packages](/blog/2021/09/03/runiverse-docs/)) and community support and camaraderie (through our [forum](/blog/2022/01/11/ropensci-forum/), our semi-open slack where there are other package maintainers, including rOpenSci staff).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being an author of an _rOpenSci_ package means you have access to rOpenSci infrastructure (such as [pkgdown docs building for all packages](/blog/2021/09/03/runiverse-docs/)) as well as community support and camaraderie (through our [forum](/blog/2022/01/11/ropensci-forum/), and our semi-open slack where there are other package maintainers, including rOpenSci staff).
```

> We're grateful for all contributions that help us provide a healthy suite of packages!

Reviewer: Otherwise it sounds almost like monetary contributions... unless you wanted to include those too?
```suggestion
We're grateful for all contributors that help us provide a healthy suite of packages!
```

> Co-maintaining might allow for more team work and more work division, and if that appeals to you, even as a the sole maintainer of a package, you could look for co-maintainers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Co-maintaining can allow for more team work and more division of labour, so if that appeals to you, you could also look for co-maintainers. 
```

> ## What does it take to maintain or co-maintain a package?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does it take to (co-)maintain a package?
```

How much time, what skills in particular?
Sadly the answers is "it depends".

> In the list of packages in this post, some require a large overhaul (for instance essurvey whose data source underwent many changes) while others are more stable (for instance [robotstxt](https://github.com/ropensci/robotstxt/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the list of packages in this post, some require a large overhaul (for instance [essurvey](https://github.com/ropensci/essurvey) whose data source underwent many changes) while others are more stable (for instance [robotstxt](https://github.com/ropensci/robotstxt/)).
```

Other criteria that might increase the workload are: popularity (many users' requests), code health (maybe a dependency could or should be swapped for a more modern or better maintained one), whether the package is on CRAN or you'd want it to be, etc.
Have a [look at the repository](/blog/2022/07/01/evaluating-github-activity-for-contributors/) to assess its needs and its toolset before volunteering, and don't hesitate to ask questions (in the volunteering issue, in a new issue if there is no volunteering issue).

> ## How long would you maintain or co-maintain a package?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How long would you (co-)maintain a package?
```

  "googleLanguageR" = "https://github.com/ropensci/googleLanguageR",
  "nlrx" = "https://github.com/ropensci/nlrx",
  "refsplitr" = "https://github.com/ropensci/refsplitr",
  "rtika" = "https://github.com/ropensci/rtika",
  "https://github.com/ropensci/tidyqpcr/issues/196" = "https://github.com/ropensci/tidyqpcr",
  "dbparser" = "https://github.com/ropensci/dbparser",
  "dbparser" = "https://github.com/ropensci/dbparser",
  "https://github.com/ropensci/MODIStsp/issues/262" = "https://github.com/ropensci/MODIStsp"
)

registry <- jsonlite::read_json("https://ropensci.github.io/roregistry/registry.json")[["packages"]]

parse_repo <- function(repo, issue, registry = registry) {
  pkg <- sub(".*ropensci/", "", repo)
  entry <- registry[purrr::map_chr(registry, "name") == pkg][[1]]
  text <- sprintf(
    "- **%s, %s**. %s [Repository](%s).",
    pkg,
    entry$description, 
    entry$details, 
    repo
  )
  if (grepl("github", issue)) {
    text <- paste(text, sprintf("[Issue with details](%s).", issue))
  }
  text
}
repos_text <- purrr::map2_chr(repos, names(repos), parse_repo, registry = registry)
cat("\n")
cat(
  glue::glue_collapse(repos_text, sep = "\n")
)
```

## Conclusion

> In this post we listed some rOpenSci packages for which new maintainers or co-maintainers are needed.
> Help requests including calls for maintainers and co-maintainers are always listed on our [help wanted](/help-wanted) page.
> We also explained why one would volunteer.
> If you are interested in rOpenSci mission but not in the idea of maintaining a package, have a look at our [contributing guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post I explained that there is a cycle to package maintenance, why maintainers may step down, and why one would want to step up! Hopefully I've inspired some soon-to-be maintainers, who've taken a look at our list of rOpenSci packages for which new maintainers or co-maintainers are needed.
Not sure you're ready to tackle these packages, but think you might be interested in the future? Help requests including calls for maintainers and co-maintainers are always listed on our [help wanted](/help-wanted) page.
If you are interested in rOpenSci mission but not in the idea of maintaining a package, have a look at our [contributing guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/) for other ways you can contribute to rOpenSci and benefit from being part of the rOpenSci community!
```
